README.md, before:

# pegaso-infrastructure
Terraform templates for database and app hosts

# Pre-requisites

Terraform installation on Ubuntu:

```bash
sudo apt-get update

sudo apt-get install -y gnupg software-properties-common curl

curl -fsSL https://apt.releases.hashicorp.com/gpg | sudo apt-key add -

sudo apt-add-repository "deb [arch=amd64] https://apt.releases.hashicorp.com $(lsb_release -cs) main"

sudo apt-get update

sudo apt-get install terraform
```

Checking the installation 

```bash
terraform -help
```

IDE for Terraform on Ubuntu (optional).

Installing Visual Studio Code:

```bash
sudo apt install apt-transport-https

sudo apt update

sudo apt install code 
```

Open it with the command:

```bash
code
```

# Deployment

Once in the repository folder, Terraform is started with:

```sh
terraform init
```

The configuration can be checked for code consistency:

```sh
terraform validate
```

The set of ressources to be deployed can be checked with:

```sh
terraform plan
```

Deployment with terraform is performed as follows:

```sh
terraform apply -auto-approve
```

The outputs can be retrieved after deployment also with:

```sh
terraform refresh
```

Destruction:

```sh
terraform destroy -auto-approve
```


# Environment requirements

The Terraform templates use environment variables to retrieve provider keys. They can be defined as follows if root (```sudo su root```):

```bash
echo 'TF_VAR_my_secret_key="e11414AIb12mvVDasdf5adsW27pasdfPYoasI0dPFgOdFGa2JCJ7"' >> /etc/environment
echo 'TF_VAR_my_public_key="AKNOFASD37RASD43L4N"' >> /etc/environment
```

## Utilities

There are bash utilities to 

### Connect to EC2 instances through ssh

The following scripts retrieve the public IPs from Terraform outputs and build the ssh call to access the EC2 instances

/Utilities/bash-scripts/ssh-app.sh
/Utilities/bash-scripts/ssh-database.sh

> Note that the instances are deployed using ssh key pairs. These keys are passed to the scripts as environment variables.

Define these variables in the .profile as follows

```bash
...
export SSH_KEYS_DIR='<<path to ssh keys folder>>'
export SSH_KEY_APPLCTN='key-pair-Linux-AMI-root'
export SSH_KEY_DATABAS='key-pair-Linux-AMI-root'
...
```

### Update Ansible inventory with App and database hosts IPs

TODO doc

Commit message:

development of automation ssh and ansible utility scripts

README.md, after:

# pegaso-infrastructure
Terraform templates for database and app hosts

# Pre-requisites

Terraform installation on Ubuntu:

```bash
sudo apt-get update

sudo apt-get install -y gnupg software-properties-common curl

curl -fsSL https://apt.releases.hashicorp.com/gpg | sudo apt-key add -

sudo apt-add-repository "deb [arch=amd64] https://apt.releases.hashicorp.com $(lsb_release -cs) main"

sudo apt-get update

sudo apt-get install terraform
```

Checking the installation 

```bash
terraform -help
```

IDE for Terraform on Ubuntu (optional).

Installing Visual Studio Code:

```bash
sudo apt install apt-transport-https

sudo apt update

sudo apt install code 
```

Open it with the command:

```bash
code
```

Ansible installation on Ubuntu:

```bash
sudo apt-get install ansible
```

# Deployment

Once in the repository folder, Terraform is started with:

```sh
terraform init
```

The configuration can be checked for code consistency:

```sh
terraform validate
```

The set of ressources to be deployed can be checked with:

```sh
terraform plan
```

Deployment with terraform is performed as follows:

```sh
terraform apply -auto-approve
```

The outputs can be retrieved after deployment also with:

```sh
terraform refresh
```

Destruction:

```sh
terraform destroy -auto-approve
```


# Environment requirements

The Terraform templates use environment variables to retrieve provider keys. They can be defined as follows if root (```sudo su root```):

```bash
echo 'TF_VAR_my_secret_key="e11414AIb12mvVDasdf5adsW27pasdfPYoasI0dPFgOdFGa2JCJ7"' >> /etc/environment
echo 'TF_VAR_my_public_key="AKNOFASD37RASD43L4N"' >> /etc/environment
```

## Utilities

There are bash utilities to 

### Connect to EC2 instances through ssh

The following scripts retrieve the public IPs from Terraform outputs and build the ssh call to access the EC2 instances

/Utilities/bash-scripts/ssh-app.sh
/Utilities/bash-scripts/ssh-database.sh

> Note that the instances are deployed using ssh key pairs. These keys are passed to the scripts as environment variables.

Define these variables in the .profile as follows

```bash
...
export SSH_KEYS_DIR='<<path to ssh keys folder>>'
export SSH_KEY_APPLCTN='key-pair-Linux-AMI-root'
export SSH_KEY_DATABAS='key-pair-Linux-AMI-root'
...
```

> Note that in order to ssh access to the EC2 instances you need to allow your public IP in ```Modules/SecurityGroups/variables.tf``` by setting the default value of ```adminIP``` variable.

### Update Ansible inventory with App and database hosts IPs

TODO doc
